- [Instructor] We will now delve into the world
of data patterns in a microservices-based architecture.
There are really only a few ways to solve your data needs.
But we will start out with what should
be the most common pattern,
the single service database pattern.
As I stated before,
the single service, single database pattern should
be the most common pattern
for all data domain-based services
in a microservices architecture.
The concept is actually very simple,
but can be cost-prohibitive
if used with proprietary databases
or improperly-sized databases.
The problem that we were solving with this pattern
is that of scalability.
In a microservices architecture,
the service scalability needs should
be proportional to the database scaling needs.
As load on a single service increases,
the associated use of the database will also increase.
This can cause you to size the database based
on a single service peak needs when
the entire system is under utilized.
In this pattern, each data domain
that you build gets its own dedicated data store.
The caveat here is that if the domain also
is included in an atomic transaction,
you have to be a little bit less fine grained.
So hard and fast rules seldom apply,
it's really best case effort.
As your service scales in this pattern,
your data store itself also scales.
This is the key benefit of this pattern,
because the data domain is isolated,
and the data store itself is also isolated,
you can scale both of them up or down without impacting
this system as a whole.
If you really build this right,
you could actually isolate your data
per region while your system still functions as a whole,
but that's much more advanced
than we're going to discuss in this course.
So let's visualize what this will look
like in a simplified systems architecture.
You start with a single service
and its single data store.
Now, to color this a little bit,
we'll add two more services,
each of which has its own database.
Now, we have load on our first data service.
So, we scale the services independently of anything else,
adding two more instances.
This causes increased load on our database,
so we need to scale it as well.
Now most often, this is accomplished by making
the database itself bigger,
giving it more IOPS,
and in doing so, we've scaled our service independently
of any other service, including the data stores.